Introduction
============

I first encountered a strange little editor called vi in the late
1980's. It was pretty much the opposite of user-friendly. You could say
it was downright user-hostile. I mean, what kind of editor doesn't even
let you "just start typing" when you start it the first time!

Despite it's quirks, I learned to use it, and over time it became
my editor of choice. Now, more than 20 years later, it is still
my favorite editor.

How did I go from such a lukewarm start to regarding Vim as
an absolutely indispensible tool I use both at work and
at home? Why did my fondness for this mere text editor quickly form and
continue to grow, year after year?

It's simple. Vim rocks. It's fast and powerful. I've used many other
editors and even some IDEs, and I always eventually come back to
Vim. I've yet to see another editor that can beat it. (Due respect
to my Emacs friends who are probably mocking me as they read this.)

TextMate, Sublime Text 2, etc? I've used them. I like them. In the end
though, Vim wins, in my opinion.

But why am I telling you all this? Vimnasium is aimed at intermediate
to advanced Vim users, so you must like Vim, and I needn't convince
you that it is great.

So, what *is* Vimnasium anyway? It's the gymnasium of Vim. In it, you
will find excercises that will make you a better, more powerful Vim
user. (A vimnast? No, that's terrible.) You will gain new skills
and thereby work faster and more efficiently.

Since vi and Vim have been around so many years, there are tons
of great reference resources out in the world. The goal of Vimnasium
is to teach you some new skills in an active way that will help
plant the seeds of the muscle memory of those new skills. 

Vimnasium is also my way of giving back to the Vim community. You've
helped me time and time again. Here's hoping Vimnasium does the same
for someone else.

So, let's get started!
